README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="logo.png" alt="Logo for this project: a stylized rat and the name "Sharp">
  <br>
  <sub>Logo graciously furnished by <a href="https://github.com/zuurw">@zuurw</a>.</sub>
</p>

Software written for my [master's thesis](https://github.com/tfiers/master-thesis) 
and for the related [journal paper](https://github.com/tfiers/neural-network-paper).

The name of this Python package, `sharp`, comes from the _sharp wave-ripple_,
the electrical brain motif related to memories and learning that is studied 
in the thesis.


## Documentation

README's are provided for most sub-packages,
and docstrings are provided for most modules, classes, and methods.

Care is taken to organize the code, and to name objects in a logical way.

Also see the _Usage_ section below.


## Installation

*(Also see the installation __Notes__ below).*

The software is written in Python 3.7, and requires recent installations of
[SciPy](https://scipy.org/) and [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/).
These are most easily installed with the [(mini)conda package manager](https://conda.io/docs/index.html).

When these dependencies are installed, clone this repository to your computer
(e.g. to a directory `~/code/sharp` as in this example):
```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:tfiers/sharp.git ~/code/sharp
```

Then, install custom-made dependencies from their respective git repositories:
```sh
~/code/sharp$  pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> For now the dependency `fklab-python-core` is closed source, and needs to be
installed manually. Request access to its git repository by contacting
[Kloosterman Lab](https://kloostermanlab.org/). Clone the repository and enter
its directory, and install with `pip install .`. Verify that it is installed
correctly by trying `import fklab` in Python. See also the notes below.

Next, install this package (and its dependencies from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/)):
```sh
~/code/sharp$  pip install -e .
```

You can verify whether the installation was succesful by running Python and
trying:
```py
import sharp
```

#### Notes

- This installation procedure has been tested on Windows 10 and Ubuntu 16.04.
- If no GPU acceleration is desired, the significantly smaller CPU-only 
  version of PyTorch may be installed (i.e. `pytorch-cpu`, which corresponds 
  to `CUDA = None` on the PyTorch "get-started" page).
- The installation of `fklab-python-core` might fail while trying to build its
  `radonc` extension (especially on Windows). This extension is not used in my
  thesis, and can be excluded from the install: edit `fklab-python-core/setup.py`, 
  and remove the line `ext_modules = [radon_ext]` in the `setup()` call.



## Usage

### 1. Working directory

Create a new directory to store run configuration, logs, and (optionally) output
files:
```sh
$ mkdir ~/sharp-run
```

Optionally store this directory path to an environment variable named
`SHARP_CONFIG_DIR`:
```sh
$ export SHARP_CONFIG_DIR=~/sharp-run
```
(This is not necessary if you will always run `sharp` from within this new
directory.)


### 2. Configuration

In the new directory, create a file named `config.py`, containing a class named
`SharpConfig` that subclasses `SharpConfigBase` from [`sharp.config.spec`](sharp/config/spec.py).
Change some or all of the parent class attributes to suit your needs.

Example (`~/sharp-run/config.py`):
```py
from sharp.config.spec import SharpConfigBase

class SharpConfig(SharpConfigBase):

    output_dir = "subdir/of/your/sharp_config_dir"
    shared_output_dir = "D:\\data\\sharp-shared\\"
    
    config_id = "deep-RNN"
    num_layers = 5
    num_units_per_layer = 16
```

> On Windows, make sure to either use forward slashes in paths, or to escape
backslashes.

See the test [`config.py`](tests/system/config.py) file from this repository
for a more elaborate example, including raw input file configuration.


### 3. Running tasks

When the `config.py` file is ready, run:
```sh
~/sharp-run$  python -m sharp --local-scheduler
```
This will run the tasks specified in the `get_tasks` method of your 
`SharpConfig` class (typically generating figures), together with the 
tasks on which they depend (typically processing raw data, training 
neural networks, calculating evaluation metrics, ...).

Task dependency resolution and scheduling is outsourced to the
[Luigi](https://luigi.readthedocs.io) Python package.


Show CLI documentation with:
```sh
$ python -m sharp --help
```


### 4. Parallelization

To run subtasks in parallel, a central Luigi task scheduler should be used
instead of the local scheduler. See [here](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html)
for instructions.

When the central scheduler is running, and when you have correctly set the
`luigi_scheduler_host` setting in your `config.py` file, simply start multiple
```sh
$ python -m sharp
```
processes.

Commit message:

Specify config as a Class instance, instead of a subclass.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="logo.png" alt="Logo for this project: a stylized rat and the name "Sharp">
  <br>
  <sub>Logo graciously furnished by <a href="https://github.com/zuurw">@zuurw</a>.</sub>
</p>

Software written for my [master's thesis](https://github.com/tfiers/master-thesis) 
and for the related [journal paper](https://github.com/tfiers/neural-network-paper).

The name of this Python package, `sharp`, comes from the _sharp wave-ripple_,
the electrical brain motif related to memories and learning that is studied 
in the thesis.


## Documentation

README's are provided for most sub-packages,
and docstrings are provided for most modules, classes, and methods.

Care is taken to organize the code, and to name objects in a logical way.

Also see the _Usage_ section below.


## Installation

*(Also see the installation __Notes__ below).*

The software is written in Python 3.7, and requires recent installations of
[SciPy](https://scipy.org/) and [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/).
These are most easily installed with the [(mini)conda package manager](https://conda.io/docs/index.html).

When these dependencies are installed, clone this repository to your computer
(e.g. to a directory `~/code/sharp` as in this example):
```sh
$ git clone git@github.com:tfiers/sharp.git ~/code/sharp
```

Then, install custom-made dependencies from their respective git repositories:
```sh
~/code/sharp$  pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> For now the dependency `fklab-python-core` is closed source, and needs to be
installed manually. Request access to its git repository by contacting
[Kloosterman Lab](https://kloostermanlab.org/). Clone the repository and enter
its directory, and install with `pip install .`. Verify that it is installed
correctly by trying `import fklab` in Python. See also the notes below.

Next, install this package (and its dependencies from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/)):
```sh
~/code/sharp$  pip install -e .
```

You can verify whether the installation was succesful by running Python and
trying:
```py
import sharp
```

#### Notes

- This installation procedure has been tested on Windows 10 and Ubuntu 16.04.
- If no GPU acceleration is desired, the significantly smaller CPU-only 
  version of PyTorch may be installed (i.e. `pytorch-cpu`, which corresponds 
  to `CUDA = None` on the PyTorch "get-started" page).
- The installation of `fklab-python-core` might fail while trying to build its
  `radonc` extension (especially on Windows). This extension is not used in my
  thesis, and can be excluded from the install: edit `fklab-python-core/setup.py`, 
  and remove the line `ext_modules = [radon_ext]` in the `setup()` call.



## Usage

### 1. Working directory

Create a new directory to store run configuration, logs, and (optionally) output
files:
```sh
$ mkdir ~/sharp-run
```

Optionally store this directory path to an environment variable named
`SHARP_CONFIG_DIR`:
```sh
$ export SHARP_CONFIG_DIR=~/sharp-run
```
(This is not necessary if you will always run `sharp` from within this new
directory.)


### 2. Configuration

In the new directory, create a file named `config.py`, and define an object
named `config`, as an instance of [`SharpConfig`](sharp/config/spec.py).
Change some or all of the default attributes to suit your needs.

Example (`~/sharp-run/config.py`):
```py
from sharp.config.spec import SharpConfig

config = SharpConfig(
    output_dir = "subdir/of/your/sharp_config_dir",
    shared_output_dir = "D:\\data\\sharp-shared\\",
    config_id = "deep-RNN",
    num_layers = 8,
    num_units_per_layer = 16,
)
```

> On Windows, make sure to either use forward slashes in paths, or to escape
backslashes.

See the test [`config.py`](tests/system/config.py) file from this repository
for a more elaborate example, including specifying the location of raw input
files.


### 3. Running tasks

When your `config.py` file is ready, run:
```sh
~/sharp-run$  python -m sharp --local-scheduler
```
This will run the tasks specified in the `get_tasks` method of your 
`SharpConfig` instance (typically generating figures), together with the 
tasks on which they depend (typically processing raw data, training 
neural networks, calculating evaluation metrics, ...).

Task dependency resolution and scheduling is outsourced to the
[Luigi](https://luigi.readthedocs.io) Python package.


Show CLI documentation with:
```sh
$ python -m sharp --help
```


### 4. Parallelization

To run tasks in parallel, a central Luigi task scheduler should be used instead
of the local scheduler. See [here](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html)
for instructions.

When the central scheduler is running, and when you have correctly set the
`luigi_scheduler_host` setting in your `config.py` file, simply start multiple
```sh
$ python -m sharp
```
processes, where the `SHARP_CONFIG_DIR` environment variable (or if not set,
the current working directory) specifies which configuration this worker will
use.
